{"interaction":{"author":{"id":3375337,"link":"http://visions-of-johanna.tumblr.com/","username":"visions-of-johanna"},"content":"He?s just an idiot. When he speaks, I literally know I am about to lose brain cells trying to understand him, and if I manage to understand his point, those brain cells died in vain. I could care less he was a famous neurosurgeon (that has been sued for malpractice 6+ times - one of which was because he left a sponge inside a patients brain), he is continually challenging the idea that you have to be smart in order to be a doctor. He willfully neglects the systemic racism black people in America are forced to deal with, he willfully neglects the very real war on women, he willfully neglects the lower class, he willfully neglects basic facts about American history or even world history, and he willfully neglects reality. He has no experience whatsoever in politics, much less foreign relations or diplomacy, and has no experience dealing with economics or social policy. Electing this man into any office, much less the presidency, is a horrific future to think about. It makes me all ragey and type with purpose.\n\n\nLet?s start with his opinions of women and of social issues concerning women:\n?You know, there are those of us in this society who have told women that there?s a war on them because that cute little baby inside of them, they may want to get rid of it and there are people that are keeping you from doing that,? Carson continued. ?And women say, ?No, no, they?re not doing that to me! No!? And they get all riled up?when a woman is a pregnant, what happens? People get up and give them a seat - there is no war on women?.?\n\nIf you don?t believe this sack of shit actually said any of this, here is a video. First off, let?s address that none of this makes sense - first people tell women there is a war on them because there?s a baby inside of us and we might not want to keep it, and then someone is stopping that from happening, and then we refuse to acknowledge that, and then we have to realize there isn?t a war because sometimes someone will let me have a seat on the bus? WHAT??\nOkay one, nobody believes there is a war on women because we can have babies - we believe there is a war on women because there is one. We believe there is a war on women because throughout 5000 years of human history women have been physically, socially, and economically oppressed by men. We believe there is a war on women because facts tell us there is, and history tells us there is, and reality tells us there is. There is a war on women because we have to listen to a MAN tell us as WOMEN, why our struggles aren?t struggles and listen to HIS reasoning being that some dude will give you a place to sit on the bus, and then dismiss our anger at this as ?getting all riled up?. Saying there is no war on women because someone will sometimes give you their seat, is like saying racism doesn?t exist because a black man is our president - it?s completely ignoring and refusing to acknowledge the racism that happens on a daily basis all over this country that manifests itself in police brutality, physical abuse, unlawful arrests, shooting massacres in churches targeting black citizens, etc. etc. etc. It?s the same faulty logic. That?s why we believe there is a war on women. And abortion rights is only part of that war.?\nLimiting the war on women to abortion rights is a massive disservice to women everywhere, both of the past and the present, and showcases how utterly inept you are and your complete lack of knowledge on the social climate. If you don?t agree with the war on women, whatever (you?re an asshole, but whatever), but at least fucking know WHAT IT IS and what it is about and what actually defines it so you can actually have an opinion about it - because when you limit it to a single issue (then further abuse that one issue) you?re opinion is fucking overruled because you?re a clueless fucking moron, with no desire to educate yourself on the other side - much less have empathy for those you are dismissing and invalidating, but that?s way too much to fucking ask.\nSecondly,??a cute little baby inside of us?? Nobody thinks fetuses in utero are??cute? - they?re pretty nasty looking actually. 91% of abortions - NINETY ONE PERCENT - happen in the first trimester, and you should google what that embryo looks like because a clump of cells that look like they have a case of Elephantitis is not a??cute little baby?, it?s alarmingly alien! And yes, there ARE people in society that are trying to keep us from exercising our constitutional right to a safe abortion procedure - THIS VIDEO IS EXCELLENT PROOF OF THAT, you standing there arguing why there isn?t a war on women, and how abortions should be illegal.?\nThird, lets focus for a second on why women get abortions: not being ready to be a mother, not wanting to be a mother, not wanting another child, not having the money to raise a child, faulty birth control, sexual assault, and physical illness, injury or death resulting from carrying the fetus. NONE of the reasons above logically mean the person getting the abortion is not emotionally in turmoil over their choice. Having an abortion is an incredibly emotional event and considering and deciding to have an abortion, for any of the reasons above, is incredibly hard. If for you, getting an abortion is like??no biggie I?m good!?, that?s totally fine. But the reality is, most women who get abortions struggle emotionally with that choice - even leading to therapy, counseling, and medication to deal with that choice. NOT acknowledging that struggle, and painting all women who make this choice as murders is so fucked up I can?t even grasp it.\nMy last point on this is,??they get all riled up???\nYou?re talking about our bodies, our pregnancies, our lives, our rights, and our choices - how fucking dare you act like our reactions or our anger is not completely proportional to what is happening. Do I even have to mention that a man telling a woman she is getting??all riled up? is misogynistic as fuck? My fucking god, women aren?t allowed to have any kind of emotional spectrum are they? Much less to things directly affecting their lives, well being, and choices. But hey, we shouldn?t complain because sometimes some dude will let us have his seat on the god damn metro, right?\n?What we need to do is re-educate the women to understand that they are the defenders of these babies.?\n\nWOMEN DO NOT NEED TO BE RE-EDUCATED. WE NEED MEN TO STOP TALKING DOWN TO WOMEN LIKE THE REASON WE HAVE THE THOUGHTS AND OPINIONS WE HAVE IS BECAUSE WE ARE LESS THAN MEN. Women are not lacking.?Having a different opinion than you is not due to a lack of education. I am pro-choice, and a feminist, and am that way because of my education and life experience. Ben Carson?s opinion of women is??don?t you worry your pretty little head about these things, I know what I am doing?. And while my head is very pretty, it is also full of a ton of factual information, life experience, an education which resulted in a Bachelor?s degree, and the fact I AM a woman. When it comes to abortion, I KNOW what am I doing - not Ben Carson.??So men can?t have an opinion on abortion?? Nope, they can?t. They all need to shut the fuck up. Don?t like it? I don?t care, because what I don?t like is not having immediate access to a safe abortion procedure (or basic female health care) because of men who think they know better than I do about my own body.\n?Well, my thoughts are that marriage is between a man and a woman. It?s a well-established, fundamental pillar of society and no group, be they gays, be they NAMBLA, be they people who believe in bestiality. It doesn?t matter what they are. They don?t get to change the definition.??\nNobody cares what your thoughts are on gay marriage or traditional marriage because you don?t have the right to impose your personal beliefs on even one other person, much less 319 million of them. Secondly, the argument that traditional marriage is a??fundamental pillar of society? is a terrible, faulty argument full of holes. for the vast majority of human history slavery was a??fundamental pillar of society?. In the civil rights era, segregation and??separate but equal? was considered a ?fundamental pillar of society?. Child labor during the Industrial Revolution and afterwards was considered a??fundamental pillar of society?. There have been many things that were considered ?fundamental pillars? that were unfair at best and inhumane and cruel at worst.?\nalso?DID HE REALLY JUST SAY??be they people who believe in bestiality???\nSo, Ben Carson is now officially in the group of people who think gay marriage is equal to wanting to marry your dog, great. Aside from that?what group of pro-bestiality persons are holding rallies in support of gay marriage? Usually if you want to spend your time fucking horses, you keep that card close to your chest you know what I mean? The pro-bestiality crowd in America is not the most outspoken group politically speaking. So it?s fair to say he is just making up people and groups who oppose his views now. The fact his mind went from pro same-sex marriage to bestiality in the matter of how long it takes to form a sentence is gross and bigoted.?\nHere is the most important line from the ruling allowing same sex marriage this year:\n?The Constitution grants them that right.?\n\nIt?s constitutional. Nobody cares what you think your God thinks about gay marriage. It?s been ruled constitutional by an entity that has more say than you have now, and still has more say than you if you were President. It?s the law - so shut the fuck up.\nNow, here is some fucking NONSENSE he wamped-wamped his way through during the Republican debate last night - Carson was asked what his opinion was on Obama deploying a limited number of troops to Syria will keeping 10k troops on the ground in Afghanistan. His response:\n?Well, putting the special ops people in there is better than not having them there, because they ? that?s why they?re called special ops, they?re actually able to guide some of the other things that we?re doing there.?\nWhat? I tried to think of a way to explain his answer in a way that could possibly be more vague, and I couldn?t. Special Ops aren?t diplomatic??guides?, number one, and what??other things? are we doing there? WHAT things?\n\n\n?We also must recognize that it?s a very complex place. You know, the Chinese are there, as well as the Russians, and you have all kinds of factions there?What we?ve been doing so far is very ineffective, but we can?t give up ground right there. But we have to look at this on a much more global scale. We?re talking about global jihadists. And their desire is to destroy us and to destroy our way of life. So we have to be saying, how do we make them look like losers? Because that?s the way that they?re able to gather a lot of influence.?\n\nYour foreign policy plan for dealing with ISIS and the Syrian crisis is??to make them look like losers??? My body naturally starts to dry heave whenever I read this quote, as though my brain is literally trying to exorcise the stupid that my body was just forced to absorb.?\nOh, also, there are literally no Chinese forces in Syria. He is just making things up.\nHere?s Carson on the minimum wage:\n?Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless people increases. It?s particularly a problem in the black community. Only 19.8 percent of black teenagers have a job, who are looking for one. You know, and that?s because of those high wages. If you lower those wages, that comes down.?\n\nThere is absolutely no factual basis for saying that people lose jobs when the minimum wage is increased. It just doesn?t happen. Also, the 19.8 percent figure on black teens is also incorrect, and the reasons for black teens (or black people in general) not having jobs is much more due to systematic racism in our country than anything close to minimum wage raises. Carson not mentioning that is a slap in the face to the black community and the societal struggles of POC.?\nOn climate change:\n\"Of course there?s climate change?any point in time, temperatures are going up or temperatures are going down. Of course that?s happening. When that stops happening, that?s when we?re in big trouble.?\n\nThis is not what climate change is. And somebody that doesn?t understand what climate change is, shouldn?t be telling any of us that it?s irrelevant or unimportant. Climate change is very very very very very serious. Temperatures rising are a symptom of that change, it is not the change itself. Climate change?has to do with dirty fossil fuels, rate of carbon emissions, methane emissions, over consumption, lack of clean energy, droughts, rising tides, mass migrations, etc. Again he says:\n?Very familiar with the various arguments? about climate change. But ?it doesn?t matter about global warming or global cooling,? he said, because ?at any point in time the earth is getting warmer or colder. That?s not the big factor.? Carson then said he has not received??overwhelming science? that climate change is a factor.\n?GOOGLE. just fucking GOOOOOOOOOOOOGLE ITTTTTTTTT. Type in??how serious is climate change??. Educate yourself, you walking human turd. Here are some articles I googled in literally 3 seconds:\nhttp://www.nature.org/ourinitiatives/urgentissues/global-warming-climate-change/threats-impacts/\n\nhttp://www.ucsusa.org/our-work/global-warming/science-and-impacts/global-warming-impacts#.VkQChq6rTpA\n\nhttp://climate.nasa.gov/effects/\n\nLiterally every credible scientist on the planet has been screaming at us for the last 2 decades that we need to rapidly transition to clean energy, and move away from fossil fuels specifically because of how serious climate change is, but clearly Ben Carson knows better.\nNow here are some quotes from Ben Carson that are just?.well, here you go.\n?You know Obamacare is really I think the worst thing that has happened in this nation since slavery. And it is in a way, it is slavery in a way, because it is making all of us subservient to the government, and it was never about health care. It was about control.? \n\nYes, slavery which resulted in 80 million deaths, rape, torture, displacement, and inhumane cruelty is just as bad as our government trying to find a way to provide more accessible healthcare to it?s citizens (of which American?s still can choose not to participate in?so, not like slavery). And nothing else comes close?not even The Great Depression, Civil Rights Era, Pearl Harbor, WWI or WWII, Vietnam War, or SEPTEMBER 11. Okay, I?m not gonna follow you down that wormhole of NOPE. And it?s pretty rich this dude is bitching about Obamacare controlling American citizens, and how Obamacare is an example of the government overstepping its bounds?yet he still wants the government to step in and ban abortions despite the Supreme Court declaring it protected under the constitution over 30 years ago, and overrule the Supreme Court *again* on gay marriage. But Obamacare is the one who is trying to control Americans?alrighty.\n?There comes a time when people with values simply have to stand up. Think about Nazi Germany. Most of those people did not believe in what Hitler was doing. But did they speak up? Did they stand up for what they believe in? They did not, and you saw what happened.?\n\nTo say Carson here is simplifying the political climate of Nazi Germany is being very fucking generous of me. His statement here doesn?t even come close to the reality of what Nazi Germany was like or how it was run socially or politically, and it?s success or failure had nothing to do with the average German citizen saying??hey, I have a problem with us slaughtering Jews, Gays, Romani, etc?. Let?s also point out that a huge part of Nazi Germany was denying basic human and civil rights to many groups based on their ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation?sound familiar? So, if this comparison were actually legitimate, it would be liberals who would be the??people with values? standing up to an oppressive government which is using terror mongering to intimidate citizens and deny groups of people their human and civil rights.?\n\n?I mean, [America is] very much like Nazi Germany. And I know you?re not supposed to say ?Nazi Germany,? but I don?t care about political correctness. You know, you had a government using its tools to intimidate the population. We now live in a society where people are afraid to say what they actually believe.?\n\nAmerica is nothing like Nazi Germany, one. And you shouldn?t say it not because it?s politically incorrect, but because it?s untrue. The average white american is not afraid to say what they believe, and its quite obvious since most of what they say is offensive and stupid as shit (Starbucks creating a war on Christianity? okay Christian White America).?\n?Anyone caught involved in voter fraud should be immediately deported and have his citizenship revoked.?\n\nYes, an undocumented illegal alien should have their non-existent citizenship revoked immediately!\n?Be?cause a lot of people who go in?to pris?on go in?to pris?on straight?and when they come out, they?re gay. So, did something hap?pen while they were in there? Ask your?self that ques?tion.?\n\nWhy would I or should I ask myself this question, is the actual answer.\n?They?ve [IS?IS] got the wrong philo?sophy, but they?re will?ing to die for what they be?lieve, while we?re busily giv?ing away every value and every be?lief for the sake of polit?ic?al cor?rect?ness.?\n\nThat?s right, ISIS has the right idea - we?re just too caught up in being decent fucking people by not calling other people dismissive terminology that we?re giving up all our values! ISIS has the right idea! (Please seriously think for a second about this quote and that Ben Carson is literally congratulating ISIS for their passion and integrity).\nWhen faced with scrutiny that he doesn?t have enough political experience, Ben Carson offered up this in his defense:\n?Every signer of the Declaration of Independence had no federal elected office experience.?\nThat?s not true. Nearly all of the signers were not only sitting in an elected seat within the Continental Congress when they signed that document, but the majority of them were career politicians.?\nAll of that, and I didn?t even have to touch on his ridiculous ideas about the pyramids.?\nBen Carson is too fucking STUPID to even exist, let alone be allowed to run for president. He is a walking scab on our democracy, and he is a literal pain in my head. His opinions are based in hate, bible literalism (which means theocratical facism) and his defense of those opinions are rooted in word salads, lies, invented facts, ramblings, and just because he thinks so.?\nFUCK THIS GUY. I hate Ben Carson, and you should too.\n","created_at":"Thu, 12 Nov 2015 20:44:15 +0000","id":"1e5897e22f47a980893fd72e66777f75","link":"http://visions-of-johanna.tumblr.com/post/133045602558","received_at":1447361056.5704999,"schema":{"version":3},"subtype":"like","title":"I Hate Ben Carson","type":"tumblr","tags":["tab7"]},"language":{"tag":"en","tag_extended":"en","confidence":99},"tumblr":{"action":"create","activity":"like","blog":{"id":"3375337","name":"visions-of-johanna","url":"http://visions-of-johanna.tumblr.com/"},"blog_name":"visions-of-johanna","blogid":"3375337","created_at":"Thu, 12 Nov 2015 20:44:15 +0000","id":"0005245e018e92af4a1069dda8e2c894","meta":{"content":"He?s just an idiot. When he speaks, I literally know I am about to lose brain cells trying to understand him, and if I manage to understand his point, those brain cells died in vain. I could care less he was a famous neurosurgeon (that has been sued for malpractice 6+ times - one of which was because he left a sponge inside a patients brain), he is continually challenging the idea that you have to be smart in order to be a doctor. He willfully neglects the systemic racism black people in America are forced to deal with, he willfully neglects the very real war on women, he willfully neglects the lower class, he willfully neglects basic facts about American history or even world history, and he willfully neglects reality. He has no experience whatsoever in politics, much less foreign relations or diplomacy, and has no experience dealing with economics or social policy. Electing this man into any office, much less the presidency, is a horrific future to think about. It makes me all ragey and type with purpose.\n\n\nLet?s start with his opinions of women and of social issues concerning women:\n?You know, there are those of us in this society who have told women that there?s a war on them because that cute little baby inside of them, they may want to get rid of it and there are people that are keeping you from doing that,? Carson continued. ?And women say, ?No, no, they?re not doing that to me! No!? And they get all riled up?when a woman is a pregnant, what happens? People get up and give them a seat - there is no war on women?.?\n\nIf you don?t believe this sack of shit actually said any of this, here is a video. First off, let?s address that none of this makes sense - first people tell women there is a war on them because there?s a baby inside of us and we might not want to keep it, and then someone is stopping that from happening, and then we refuse to acknowledge that, and then we have to realize there isn?t a war because sometimes someone will let me have a seat on the bus? WHAT??\nOkay one, nobody believes there is a war on women because we can have babies - we believe there is a war on women because there is one. We believe there is a war on women because throughout 5000 years of human history women have been physically, socially, and economically oppressed by men. We believe there is a war on women because facts tell us there is, and history tells us there is, and reality tells us there is. There is a war on women because we have to listen to a MAN tell us as WOMEN, why our struggles aren?t struggles and listen to HIS reasoning being that some dude will give you a place to sit on the bus, and then dismiss our anger at this as ?getting all riled up?. Saying there is no war on women because someone will sometimes give you their seat, is like saying racism doesn?t exist because a black man is our president - it?s completely ignoring and refusing to acknowledge the racism that happens on a daily basis all over this country that manifests itself in police brutality, physical abuse, unlawful arrests, shooting massacres in churches targeting black citizens, etc. etc. etc. It?s the same faulty logic. That?s why we believe there is a war on women. And abortion rights is only part of that war.?\nLimiting the war on women to abortion rights is a massive disservice to women everywhere, both of the past and the present, and showcases how utterly inept you are and your complete lack of knowledge on the social climate. If you don?t agree with the war on women, whatever (you?re an asshole, but whatever), but at least fucking know WHAT IT IS and what it is about and what actually defines it so you can actually have an opinion about it - because when you limit it to a single issue (then further abuse that one issue) you?re opinion is fucking overruled because you?re a clueless fucking moron, with no desire to educate yourself on the other side - much less have empathy for those you are dismissing and invalidating, but that?s way too much to fucking ask.\nSecondly,??a cute little baby inside of us?? Nobody thinks fetuses in utero are??cute? - they?re pretty nasty looking actually. 91% of abortions - NINETY ONE PERCENT - happen in the first trimester, and you should google what that embryo looks like because a clump of cells that look like they have a case of Elephantitis is not a??cute little baby?, it?s alarmingly alien! And yes, there ARE people in society that are trying to keep us from exercising our constitutional right to a safe abortion procedure - THIS VIDEO IS EXCELLENT PROOF OF THAT, you standing there arguing why there isn?t a war on women, and how abortions should be illegal.?\nThird, lets focus for a second on why women get abortions: not being ready to be a mother, not wanting to be a mother, not wanting another child, not having the money to raise a child, faulty birth control, sexual assault, and physical illness, injury or death resulting from carrying the fetus. NONE of the reasons above logically mean the person getting the abortion is not emotionally in turmoil over their choice. Having an abortion is an incredibly emotional event and considering and deciding to have an abortion, for any of the reasons above, is incredibly hard. If for you, getting an abortion is like??no biggie I?m good!?, that?s totally fine. But the reality is, most women who get abortions struggle emotionally with that choice - even leading to therapy, counseling, and medication to deal with that choice. NOT acknowledging that struggle, and painting all women who make this choice as murders is so fucked up I can?t even grasp it.\nMy last point on this is,??they get all riled up???\nYou?re talking about our bodies, our pregnancies, our lives, our rights, and our choices - how fucking dare you act like our reactions or our anger is not completely proportional to what is happening. Do I even have to mention that a man telling a woman she is getting??all riled up? is misogynistic as fuck? My fucking god, women aren?t allowed to have any kind of emotional spectrum are they? Much less to things directly affecting their lives, well being, and choices. But hey, we shouldn?t complain because sometimes some dude will let us have his seat on the god damn metro, right?\n?What we need to do is re-educate the women to understand that they are the defenders of these babies.?\n\nWOMEN DO NOT NEED TO BE RE-EDUCATED. WE NEED MEN TO STOP TALKING DOWN TO WOMEN LIKE THE REASON WE HAVE THE THOUGHTS AND OPINIONS WE HAVE IS BECAUSE WE ARE LESS THAN MEN. Women are not lacking.?Having a different opinion than you is not due to a lack of education. I am pro-choice, and a feminist, and am that way because of my education and life experience. Ben Carson?s opinion of women is??don?t you worry your pretty little head about these things, I know what I am doing?. And while my head is very pretty, it is also full of a ton of factual information, life experience, an education which resulted in a Bachelor?s degree, and the fact I AM a woman. When it comes to abortion, I KNOW what am I doing - not Ben Carson.??So men can?t have an opinion on abortion?? Nope, they can?t. They all need to shut the fuck up. Don?t like it? I don?t care, because what I don?t like is not having immediate access to a safe abortion procedure (or basic female health care) because of men who think they know better than I do about my own body.\n?Well, my thoughts are that marriage is between a man and a woman. It?s a well-established, fundamental pillar of society and no group, be they gays, be they NAMBLA, be they people who believe in bestiality. It doesn?t matter what they are. They don?t get to change the definition.??\nNobody cares what your thoughts are on gay marriage or traditional marriage because you don?t have the right to impose your personal beliefs on even one other person, much less 319 million of them. Secondly, the argument that traditional marriage is a??fundamental pillar of society? is a terrible, faulty argument full of holes. for the vast majority of human history slavery was a??fundamental pillar of society?. In the civil rights era, segregation and??separate but equal? was considered a ?fundamental pillar of society?. Child labor during the Industrial Revolution and afterwards was considered a??fundamental pillar of society?. There have been many things that were considered ?fundamental pillars? that were unfair at best and inhumane and cruel at worst.?\nalso?DID HE REALLY JUST SAY??be they people who believe in bestiality???\nSo, Ben Carson is now officially in the group of people who think gay marriage is equal to wanting to marry your dog, great. Aside from that?what group of pro-bestiality persons are holding rallies in support of gay marriage? Usually if you want to spend your time fucking horses, you keep that card close to your chest you know what I mean? The pro-bestiality crowd in America is not the most outspoken group politically speaking. So it?s fair to say he is just making up people and groups who oppose his views now. The fact his mind went from pro same-sex marriage to bestiality in the matter of how long it takes to form a sentence is gross and bigoted.?\nHere is the most important line from the ruling allowing same sex marriage this year:\n?The Constitution grants them that right.?\n\nIt?s constitutional. Nobody cares what you think your God thinks about gay marriage. It?s been ruled constitutional by an entity that has more say than you have now, and still has more say than you if you were President. It?s the law - so shut the fuck up.\nNow, here is some fucking NONSENSE he wamped-wamped his way through during the Republican debate last night - Carson was asked what his opinion was on Obama deploying a limited number of troops to Syria will keeping 10k troops on the ground in Afghanistan. His response:\n?Well, putting the special ops people in there is better than not having them there, because they ? that?s why they?re called special ops, they?re actually able to guide some of the other things that we?re doing there.?\nWhat? I tried to think of a way to explain his answer in a way that could possibly be more vague, and I couldn?t. Special Ops aren?t diplomatic??guides?, number one, and what??other things? are we doing there? WHAT things?\n\n\n?We also must recognize that it?s a very complex place. You know, the Chinese are there, as well as the Russians, and you have all kinds of factions there?What we?ve been doing so far is very ineffective, but we can?t give up ground right there. But we have to look at this on a much more global scale. We?re talking about global jihadists. And their desire is to destroy us and to destroy our way of life. So we have to be saying, how do we make them look like losers? Because that?s the way that they?re able to gather a lot of influence.?\n\nYour foreign policy plan for dealing with ISIS and the Syrian crisis is??to make them look like losers??? My body naturally starts to dry heave whenever I read this quote, as though my brain is literally trying to exorcise the stupid that my body was just forced to absorb.?\nOh, also, there are literally no Chinese forces in Syria. He is just making things up.\nHere?s Carson on the minimum wage:\n?Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless people increases. It?s particularly a problem in the black community. Only 19.8 percent of black teenagers have a job, who are looking for one. You know, and that?s because of those high wages. If you lower those wages, that comes down.?\n\nThere is absolutely no factual basis for saying that people lose jobs when the minimum wage is increased. It just doesn?t happen. Also, the 19.8 percent figure on black teens is also incorrect, and the reasons for black teens (or black people in general) not having jobs is much more due to systematic racism in our country than anything close to minimum wage raises. Carson not mentioning that is a slap in the face to the black community and the societal struggles of POC.?\nOn climate change:\n\"Of course there?s climate change?any point in time, temperatures are going up or temperatures are going down. Of course that?s happening. When that stops happening, that?s when we?re in big trouble.?\n\nThis is not what climate change is. And somebody that doesn?t understand what climate change is, shouldn?t be telling any of us that it?s irrelevant or unimportant. Climate change is very very very very very serious. Temperatures rising are a symptom of that change, it is not the change itself. Climate change?has to do with dirty fossil fuels, rate of carbon emissions, methane emissions, over consumption, lack of clean energy, droughts, rising tides, mass migrations, etc. Again he says:\n?Very familiar with the various arguments? about climate change. But ?it doesn?t matter about global warming or global cooling,? he said, because ?at any point in time the earth is getting warmer or colder. That?s not the big factor.? Carson then said he has not received??overwhelming science? that climate change is a factor.\n?GOOGLE. just fucking GOOOOOOOOOOOOGLE ITTTTTTTTT. Type in??how serious is climate change??. Educate yourself, you walking human turd. Here are some articles I googled in literally 3 seconds:\nhttp://www.nature.org/ourinitiatives/urgentissues/global-warming-climate-change/threats-impacts/\n\nhttp://www.ucsusa.org/our-work/global-warming/science-and-impacts/global-warming-impacts#.VkQChq6rTpA\n\nhttp://climate.nasa.gov/effects/\n\nLiterally every credible scientist on the planet has been screaming at us for the last 2 decades that we need to rapidly transition to clean energy, and move away from fossil fuels specifically because of how serious climate change is, but clearly Ben Carson knows better.\nNow here are some quotes from Ben Carson that are just?.well, here you go.\n?You know Obamacare is really I think the worst thing that has happened in this nation since slavery. And it is in a way, it is slavery in a way, because it is making all of us subservient to the government, and it was never about health care. It was about control.? \n\nYes, slavery which resulted in 80 million deaths, rape, torture, displacement, and inhumane cruelty is just as bad as our government trying to find a way to provide more accessible healthcare to it?s citizens (of which American?s still can choose not to participate in?so, not like slavery). And nothing else comes close?not even The Great Depression, Civil Rights Era, Pearl Harbor, WWI or WWII, Vietnam War, or SEPTEMBER 11. Okay, I?m not gonna follow you down that wormhole of NOPE. And it?s pretty rich this dude is bitching about Obamacare controlling American citizens, and how Obamacare is an example of the government overstepping its bounds?yet he still wants the government to step in and ban abortions despite the Supreme Court declaring it protected under the constitution over 30 years ago, and overrule the Supreme Court *again* on gay marriage. But Obamacare is the one who is trying to control Americans?alrighty.\n?There comes a time when people with values simply have to stand up. Think about Nazi Germany. Most of those people did not believe in what Hitler was doing. But did they speak up? Did they stand up for what they believe in? They did not, and you saw what happened.?\n\nTo say Carson here is simplifying the political climate of Nazi Germany is being very fucking generous of me. His statement here doesn?t even come close to the reality of what Nazi Germany was like or how it was run socially or politically, and it?s success or failure had nothing to do with the average German citizen saying??hey, I have a problem with us slaughtering Jews, Gays, Romani, etc?. Let?s also point out that a huge part of Nazi Germany was denying basic human and civil rights to many groups based on their ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation?sound familiar? So, if this comparison were actually legitimate, it would be liberals who would be the??people with values? standing up to an oppressive government which is using terror mongering to intimidate citizens and deny groups of people their human and civil rights.?\n\n?I mean, [America is] very much like Nazi Germany. And I know you?re not supposed to say ?Nazi Germany,? but I don?t care about political correctness. You know, you had a government using its tools to intimidate the population. We now live in a society where people are afraid to say what they actually believe.?\n\nAmerica is nothing like Nazi Germany, one. And you shouldn?t say it not because it?s politically incorrect, but because it?s untrue. The average white american is not afraid to say what they believe, and its quite obvious since most of what they say is offensive and stupid as shit (Starbucks creating a war on Christianity? okay Christian White America).?\n?Anyone caught involved in voter fraud should be immediately deported and have his citizenship revoked.?\n\nYes, an undocumented illegal alien should have their non-existent citizenship revoked immediately!\n?Be?cause a lot of people who go in?to pris?on go in?to pris?on straight?and when they come out, they?re gay. So, did something hap?pen while they were in there? Ask your?self that ques?tion.?\n\nWhy would I or should I ask myself this question, is the actual answer.\n?They?ve [IS?IS] got the wrong philo?sophy, but they?re will?ing to die for what they be?lieve, while we?re busily giv?ing away every value and every be?lief for the sake of polit?ic?al cor?rect?ness.?\n\nThat?s right, ISIS has the right idea - we?re just too caught up in being decent fucking people by not calling other people dismissive terminology that we?re giving up all our values! ISIS has the right idea! (Please seriously think for a second about this quote and that Ben Carson is literally congratulating ISIS for their passion and integrity).\nWhen faced with scrutiny that he doesn?t have enough political experience, Ben Carson offered up this in his defense:\n?Every signer of the Declaration of Independence had no federal elected office experience.?\nThat?s not true. Nearly all of the signers were not only sitting in an elected seat within the Continental Congress when they signed that document, but the majority of them were career politicians.?\nAll of that, and I didn?t even have to touch on his ridiculous ideas about the pyramids.?\nBen Carson is too fucking STUPID to even exist, let alone be allowed to run for president. He is a walking scab on our democracy, and he is a literal pain in my head. His opinions are based in hate, bible literalism (which means theocratical facism) and his defense of those opinions are rooted in word salads, lies, invented facts, ramblings, and just because he thinks so.?\nFUCK THIS GUY. I hate Ben Carson, and you should too.\n","description":"I Hate Ben Carson","likes_global":0,"likes_local":0,"reblogged_global":0,"type":"text","url":"http://visions-of-johanna.tumblr.com/post/133045602558"},"post":{"id":"133045602558","url":"http://visions-of-johanna.tumblr.com/post/133045602558"},"post_url":"http://visions-of-johanna.tumblr.com/post/133045602558","postid":"133045602558","reblogged":{"parent":{"title":"I Hate Ben Carson"}},"root":{"blog_name":"visions-of-johanna","blogid":"3375337","postid":"133045602558"},"short_url":"http://tmblr.co/ZJ14Py1xw8iZ_","source":{"blogid":"3375337"},"type":"text","url":"http://tmblr.co/ZJ14Py1xw8iZ_"}}