{"demographic":{"gender":"unisex"},"facebook":{"author":{"name":"Shiva Shankar Pandian","type":"user","id":"100001231498596","link":"http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100001231498596","avatar":"https://graph.facebook.com/100001231498596/picture"},"created_at":"Thu, 18 Dec 2014 07:34:43 +0000","id":"100001231498596_856001451117563","is_share":false,"message":"Small coffins are the heaviest...my new article.....\n\n\"If anyone slays a person, it would be as if he slew the whole people; and if anyone saves a life, it would be as if he saved the whole people\" says a Quran verse. Something contradicted yesterday, I am for sure even the stone hearted would have shed a few tears. What the terrorists did is not just slaughtering children they had wiped an entire generation from the pages of mankind. I have read somewhere a long back that there is this history during the invasion of Banu Quraiza, conducted nearly 1200 years ago by prophet Mohammad himself, around 600 people were beheaded, and they spared the lives of children and women. It is tacit to me that it was their strategy a moral one for wars on those times. That was war, That was valor. What the terrorists did in Peshawar can’t be totaled to the so called war at any means. It has been 13 years after the ‘Global war on terror’ started worldwide. Still terrorism is in upper hand. ISIS beheading women, Taliban attacks on children makes the evidence. This is not the first for Taliban; it is schools always top in the list of soft targets. \"The militants know they won't be able to strike at the heart of the military. They don't have the capacity. So they are going for soft targets,\" says Pakistani security analyst Talat Masood. As accounts show that they have struck nearly 1000 schools since 2009. Yes, Malala too. Taliban, one of the vital terror organizations since its emergence 2007 has been a greater threat to humankind. It is an indigenous movement that largely targets the machinery of the state and Pakistani citizens, and wants to impose shariah law on the country. Finding sanctuary in Pakistan borders, aiming their government yet their politics is of a global. Governments, even the USA is unable to check them mainly because the group draws its support largely in Pashtun areas neglected by both the Pakistan and the Afghan state. Even though Global war on terror is active at least in news, their resilience is smarter than our war against terror.\nIt is also true to some extent that their previous governments were reluctant in curbing these terror groups. And even their lack of political consensus presently is bad when coming to war against terror. As fiery opposition figures such as the former cricketer Imran Khan have disbursed far more effort and time campaigning against government and denouncing the perfidy of outside forces than the terrorist groups in Pakistan's midst.\n\"Heartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror.\" says Malala. It is damn too late to act; we lost many, but act at least now to save the rest. It is a lesson for the global community that we are still soft on terrorism. We never can forget the June 1941 declaration made by 14 nations including Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand with the highest determination the history has rarely seen,  to fight together against the Nazi evil. Within the next four years the mighty Nazi military machine had been destroyed. The declaration says  \"That they will continue the struggle against German or Italian aggression until victory has been won and they will mutually assist each other in this struggle to the utmost of their respective capacities; (\"There can be no settled peace and prosperity so long as free peoples are coerced by violence into submission to domination by Germany or her associates or live under the threat of such coercion; . . (Continues)” For peace to be installed we need that kind of determination to end terrorism. Yes it is possible, we outnumber them by all means expect unity among us. Time to work on it…………may those children souls rest in peace.  Insha Allah terrorism ends soon.\nTo read more, please visit www.wirelessthoughts.in","source":"web","type":"status"},"interaction":{"schema":{"version":3},"type":"facebook","id":"1e4868855232ab80e066b191cf028174","created_at":"Thu, 18 Dec 2014 07:34:43 +0000","received_at":1418888103.6084001,"author":{"name":"Shiva Shankar Pandian","type":"user","id":"100001231498596","link":"http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100001231498596","avatar":"https://graph.facebook.com/100001231498596/picture"},"link":"http://www.facebook.com/100001231498596_856001451117563","subtype":"status","media_type":"status","content":"Small coffins are the heaviest...my new article.....\n\n\"If anyone slays a person, it would be as if he slew the whole people; and if anyone saves a life, it would be as if he saved the whole people\" says a Quran verse. Something contradicted yesterday, I am for sure even the stone hearted would have shed a few tears. What the terrorists did is not just slaughtering children they had wiped an entire generation from the pages of mankind. I have read somewhere a long back that there is this history during the invasion of Banu Quraiza, conducted nearly 1200 years ago by prophet Mohammad himself, around 600 people were beheaded, and they spared the lives of children and women. It is tacit to me that it was their strategy a moral one for wars on those times. That was war, That was valor. What the terrorists did in Peshawar can’t be totaled to the so called war at any means. It has been 13 years after the ‘Global war on terror’ started worldwide. Still terrorism is in upper hand. ISIS beheading women, Taliban attacks on children makes the evidence. This is not the first for Taliban; it is schools always top in the list of soft targets. \"The militants know they won't be able to strike at the heart of the military. They don't have the capacity. So they are going for soft targets,\" says Pakistani security analyst Talat Masood. As accounts show that they have struck nearly 1000 schools since 2009. Yes, Malala too. Taliban, one of the vital terror organizations since its emergence 2007 has been a greater threat to humankind. It is an indigenous movement that largely targets the machinery of the state and Pakistani citizens, and wants to impose shariah law on the country. Finding sanctuary in Pakistan borders, aiming their government yet their politics is of a global. Governments, even the USA is unable to check them mainly because the group draws its support largely in Pashtun areas neglected by both the Pakistan and the Afghan state. Even though Global war on terror is active at least in news, their resilience is smarter than our war against terror.\nIt is also true to some extent that their previous governments were reluctant in curbing these terror groups. And even their lack of political consensus presently is bad when coming to war against terror. As fiery opposition figures such as the former cricketer Imran Khan have disbursed far more effort and time campaigning against government and denouncing the perfidy of outside forces than the terrorist groups in Pakistan's midst.\n\"Heartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror.\" says Malala. It is damn too late to act; we lost many, but act at least now to save the rest. It is a lesson for the global community that we are still soft on terrorism. We never can forget the June 1941 declaration made by 14 nations including Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand with the highest determination the history has rarely seen,  to fight together against the Nazi evil. Within the next four years the mighty Nazi military machine had been destroyed. The declaration says  \"That they will continue the struggle against German or Italian aggression until victory has been won and they will mutually assist each other in this struggle to the utmost of their respective capacities; (\"There can be no settled peace and prosperity so long as free peoples are coerced by violence into submission to domination by Germany or her associates or live under the threat of such coercion; . . (Continues)” For peace to be installed we need that kind of determination to end terrorism. Yes it is possible, we outnumber them by all means expect unity among us. Time to work on it…………may those children souls rest in peace.  Insha Allah terrorism ends soon.\nTo read more, please visit www.wirelessthoughts.in","source":"web","tags":["tab7"]},"language":{"tag":"en","tag_extended":"en","confidence":99}}