{"demographic":{"gender":"unisex"},"facebook":{"author":{"name":"Free to express Libre d'exprimer lib pou pale","type":"page","category":"Community","id":"1519654948296672","link":"http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=1519654948296672","avatar":"https://graph.facebook.com/1519654948296672/picture"},"created_at":"Sat, 17 Jan 2015 16:21:45 +0000","id":"1519654948296672_1521191788142988","is_share":false,"message":"All Lives Matter\n\nI am just wondering why the United States of America and its traditional allies does not do anything to help out the Nigerian population, while Boka Haram, like other terrorist group siege villages, kill innocent people, kidnap girls from school and make their rules without no fear.  \nAfter lurching from one military coup to another, finally nagarians have elected a new president to lead the country.  Obviously, the government has faced the challenge of avoiding Africa’s most populous country from falling apart along ethnicity and religious lines. Since 1999, when political liberation ushered in by returning civilian rules, the Nigerians have been unable to unify and keep the country on tract. Ethnics groups and militants from different religious background just want to have their way by pursuing theirs demands through violence.  At this very moment, Nigeria cries out for help. A chaos is been established. Thousands of people have died for the past few years in attacks operated by Boko Haram a branch of Al-Qaida. Many people have fleeted schools, houses, churches, business and structures burnt out. Separatist aspiration is growing very fast. The imposition of Islamic law in several northern states has embedded divisions and caused thousands of Christians to flee.\nIn the mess of seeing the country tearing down, the Nigerian government struggled to keep the economy going in the right direction. They can not run the oil industry efficiently to generate funds that allow them to finance projects and improve the population. The level of corruption is too high; oil has been stolen and sold in the black market.  Violence have come a daily reality. Militants and military forces confront each other in the battle field. Last year, Boka Haram managed to kidnap more than 200 hundred girls from their school; authorities and militants have worked on an agreement to release those girls moreover, they are still reported missing. Last week, the militants killed about 2000 people in separate bomb attacks; they even used a ten year old girl who exploded herself at a commercial facility. This is too much! I don’t understand the fact that United States of America and allies decide to let everything happen and leave the Nigerian population in this mess! The west that is lead by USA has conducted air strikes in Iraq and Syria to decrease or destroy Isis or Isil. They have provided arms, ammunitions, advisers, money to the Iraqi military, the peshmergas, the Kurds even the free Syrian rebels. They showed up in a huge way while the result of their mission is questionable. Personally, that’s a form of support. I cannot understand why Nigeria is alone without any help in the fight against terrorism. The attack on Charlie Hebdo recently attracted many people from the world, on every media that’s all about: Attack in Paris. Millions have said “Je suis Charie” or “I am Charlie”. It seems right after this Attack; the European authorities found a common ground to fight back terrorism. But nothing is been done for Nigeria to survive from the constant violence. \n  Last year thousands of people had gathered and demonstrated in several cities in USA to show support for Michael Brown and Erick Gardner family after being killed by police officers. People had chanted black lives matter for months. Even activist, civil rights leaders did not say anything for the Nigerian victims. I personally do believe every life matters! The world needs to have more compassion for people in Africa. We need to stop being hypocritical with one another. The violence in Nigeria has killed more people than the Ebola in West Africa. The west government must realize that they cannot act solely by their profits and gains. As leaders, they supposed to be sensitive and be open for everyone.  We cannot continue to see Africa as an experimental region to test and investigate misery, poverty, violence, civil war, Ebola and Aids. It is very urgent to make something positive happen for Africa, than you can feel proud to be a good leader. That is not in the name of liberty and Christianity USA also, Iraqi air forces rescued the Yazidis from Isis on top of the Mount Sinjar last year. It appears to be the same situation in Nigeria where Islamic militants are killing Christians, forcing them to convert to Islam. Why lives and beliefs of Africans are meaningless and worthless for the west?\n\nSacha Dieubon\nFlorida 01/17/15","source":"web","type":"status"},"interaction":{"schema":{"version":3},"type":"facebook","id":"1e49e64edb5fa280e066fb35e7859092","created_at":"Sat, 17 Jan 2015 16:21:45 +0000","received_at":1421511722.3169000,"author":{"name":"Free to express Libre d'exprimer lib pou pale","type":"page","category":"Community","id":"1519654948296672","link":"http://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=1519654948296672","avatar":"https://graph.facebook.com/1519654948296672/picture"},"link":"http://www.facebook.com/1519654948296672_1521191788142988","subtype":"status","media_type":"status","content":"All Lives Matter\n\nI am just wondering why the United States of America and its traditional allies does not do anything to help out the Nigerian population, while Boka Haram, like other terrorist group siege villages, kill innocent people, kidnap girls from school and make their rules without no fear.  \nAfter lurching from one military coup to another, finally nagarians have elected a new president to lead the country.  Obviously, the government has faced the challenge of avoiding Africa’s most populous country from falling apart along ethnicity and religious lines. Since 1999, when political liberation ushered in by returning civilian rules, the Nigerians have been unable to unify and keep the country on tract. Ethnics groups and militants from different religious background just want to have their way by pursuing theirs demands through violence.  At this very moment, Nigeria cries out for help. A chaos is been established. Thousands of people have died for the past few years in attacks operated by Boko Haram a branch of Al-Qaida. Many people have fleeted schools, houses, churches, business and structures burnt out. Separatist aspiration is growing very fast. The imposition of Islamic law in several northern states has embedded divisions and caused thousands of Christians to flee.\nIn the mess of seeing the country tearing down, the Nigerian government struggled to keep the economy going in the right direction. They can not run the oil industry efficiently to generate funds that allow them to finance projects and improve the population. The level of corruption is too high; oil has been stolen and sold in the black market.  Violence have come a daily reality. Militants and military forces confront each other in the battle field. Last year, Boka Haram managed to kidnap more than 200 hundred girls from their school; authorities and militants have worked on an agreement to release those girls moreover, they are still reported missing. Last week, the militants killed about 2000 people in separate bomb attacks; they even used a ten year old girl who exploded herself at a commercial facility. This is too much! I don’t understand the fact that United States of America and allies decide to let everything happen and leave the Nigerian population in this mess! The west that is lead by USA has conducted air strikes in Iraq and Syria to decrease or destroy Isis or Isil. They have provided arms, ammunitions, advisers, money to the Iraqi military, the peshmergas, the Kurds even the free Syrian rebels. They showed up in a huge way while the result of their mission is questionable. Personally, that’s a form of support. I cannot understand why Nigeria is alone without any help in the fight against terrorism. The attack on Charlie Hebdo recently attracted many people from the world, on every media that’s all about: Attack in Paris. Millions have said “Je suis Charie” or “I am Charlie”. It seems right after this Attack; the European authorities found a common ground to fight back terrorism. But nothing is been done for Nigeria to survive from the constant violence. \n  Last year thousands of people had gathered and demonstrated in several cities in USA to show support for Michael Brown and Erick Gardner family after being killed by police officers. People had chanted black lives matter for months. Even activist, civil rights leaders did not say anything for the Nigerian victims. I personally do believe every life matters! The world needs to have more compassion for people in Africa. We need to stop being hypocritical with one another. The violence in Nigeria has killed more people than the Ebola in West Africa. The west government must realize that they cannot act solely by their profits and gains. As leaders, they supposed to be sensitive and be open for everyone.  We cannot continue to see Africa as an experimental region to test and investigate misery, poverty, violence, civil war, Ebola and Aids. It is very urgent to make something positive happen for Africa, than you can feel proud to be a good leader. That is not in the name of liberty and Christianity USA also, Iraqi air forces rescued the Yazidis from Isis on top of the Mount Sinjar last year. It appears to be the same situation in Nigeria where Islamic militants are killing Christians, forcing them to convert to Islam. Why lives and beliefs of Africans are meaningless and worthless for the west?\n\nSacha Dieubon\nFlorida 01/17/15","source":"web","tags":["tab5","tab7"]},"language":{"tag":"en","tag_extended":"en","confidence":99}}